# World and Backstory

In the prelude to the First Age of Expansion, humankind rediscovered the Old
Gods and released them from their tombs of stone. The Gods began to walk among
us and work wonders through their avatars. It was the Gods who provided the
impetus and technology to expand throughout the stars, and they led their loyal
followers first to their home planets within the Solar system, and then from
there they began expanding outwards. Their initial peace was based upon the
ancient borders of their spheres, but no covenant existed for the stars. War
followed, and it did not end until the Calamity befell Earth -- the birthplace
of humanity was nearly subsumed in flames, and so the humans rose up against
their Gods and, with great sacrifice, imprisoned them in sarcophagi. A single
warlock, one who lived a blameless life of philosophy and virtue, was tasked
with hiding the sarcophagi on an unknown and very remote planet, and to then
live out his days in solitude so that the Old Gods could never be revived. The
settlements throughout the Solar system were destroyed, and a new Covenant was
formed to forbid any contact with Earth so it could recover in peace. Thus ended
the First Age of Expansion.

The centuries before the Second Age of Expansion were ruined by the Rot, a
virulent disease that infected the fabric of spacetime itself and caused
accelerated entropy. All life adapted, but technology was widely lost (except in
the galactic center where an Ark was built to house the Solar system and
eventually reseed the galaxy with knowledge and the original humans),
and with it the history of humanity. The human civilizations throughout the
galaxy fell apart until all that remained was only vaguely recognizable. When
spacetime shook off the Rot and civilizations recovered, humanity had ceased to
be united in biology and creed -- the Covenant was forgotten, as were the Old
Gods, who had not been spared by the Rot in their slumber. The Ark was activated
prematurely and sent out probes with the collective technological knowledge of
humanity, but what reached the surviving colonies was not spared by the Rot --
the empires that emerged were all quite alien. Somewhere near the central
supermassive black hole, protected by the gravity well, the Ark remains as the
final testimony of the past.

In the Second Age of Expansion, the Galuptan Empire settled a star system on the
fringe of the galaxy: Xheldar with its habitable planet Xheldara Prime. The
Galuptan settlers on could not have known that the ancient philosopher had
buried the sarcophagi of the Old Gods on Xheldara Prime, nor could they have
possibly anticipated that the warlock's seals had been disrupted by the Rot. One
by one, what had become of the Gods were awakened:
Curmiece by the first theft;
Maraze was awakened by the first fist fight;
Venuze by the first lustful act of procreation;
Juzeve by the first business transaction;
Stranut by the first funeral;
Ouraniose by the activation of the first security camera;
Nupteze by the first nightmare by the sea.
The Archons did not remember quite correctly what had transpired in the
foregoing aeons, but they recognized they were very different from everything
else they encountered -- more powerful and primeval. They formed a new Covenant
to maintain a relative peace between them and set out to pursue their own
religious empires, gathering adherents and establishing temples throughout the
civilized galaxy, inspiring conquest with religious fervor.

When one of the Archon's empire explored the galactic center and found the Ark
containing the Solar system, the latent Others who had once hidden from the more
powerful Old Gods rebuffed their advance. These Others had empowered bloodlines
of original humans as Keepers to protect the Solar system, which is the original
and only source of Life in the galaxy. Each Archon attempts individually to take
the Ark, but the armies of the Archons all fail in their endeavors. After they
realize that the Ark is unconquerable, and after all habitable zones in the
galaxy are fully colonized by the Archons' adherents, the Archons set their
ambitions on the neighboring galaxies of the Local Group, their appetites only
increased through their consumption of all sentient minds of the Milky Way.

The Third Age of Expansion begins once Curmiece and Nupteze create the Siphon, a
technological marvel/horror that can duplicate an embodied consciousness to a
nearby galaxy at the cost of sentient soul per light year per kiligram, allowing
the Archons to spread throughout the Local Group while bringing along powerful
Eidolons. The duplicates are entangled with the originals, splitting the minds
across the vast distances. As a result, the Archons eventually become insane and
inflict progressively more demented cruelties upon the peoples of the Milky Way.
In the neighboring galaxies, the local inhabitants organize resistance movements
for collective defense and eventually manage to repell and banish the Archons.
The Third Age of Expansion then ends when the Archons, enraged by their defeats
and maddened by the stretching of their minds, begin a suicidal assault upon the
Ark. When the final battle is fought, only small fragments of the Archons,
the psychic equivalents of fingernails, remain, the rest having been destroyed
at the event horizon of `Sagittarius A*`. The fragments are then sealed in stone
and placed in orbit opposite the Ark.

The final Age envisioned is one in which the surrounding Local Group galaxies
invade seeking revenge. The fragments of the Archons are extracted from their
stone containers and stitched together to form a Chimera and used to battle the
invaders.
