# World Mechanics/Physics

- The distinction between "natural" and "supernatural" is meaningless in the
  world of Ex Lapide. Things just are. The mental/psychic manipulations of
  reality happen just as surely as gravity pulls things downward; they are plain
  facts of the world and require specialization like any other skilled labor.
- The Old Gods are motivated primarily by boredom/ennui and ego. The Archons are
  motivated primarily by insatiable appetite. Neither type of being transcends
  its nature.
- In general, there is no FTL travel (except for rare instances of short-range
  tunneling). The Gods/Archons are immortal and can transmit their souls at
  light speed; what is a hundred years to an immortal being? If sending one's
  adherents to a nearby star system costs a million lives and takes a dozen
  generations, it is a reasonable price to pay for having a useful population of
  slaves to expand an Archon's influence and power.
- The Siphon does not teleport a duplicated consciousness into a nearby galaxy;
  it also transmits at light speed. The Siphon's utility is in allowing the
  Archons to be present in multiple galaxies at the same time at the low cost of
  other sentient souls.
- Other, lesser types of psychic beings/resonances also exist in this world, and
  they can be created/destroyed by sufficiently skilled warlocks or sufficiently
  potent mass rituals. The Old Gods are different because they coalesced energy
  for billions of years while tethered to celestial bodies and underwent
  millions of years of evolution; the Archons are different because they are Old
  Gods that were warped by the Rot while sleeping in stone prisons.
- Post-Rot, several less-evolved Morphic Resonances clinging to celestial bodies
  in star systems devoid of life become reactive, and those in colonized star
  systems become active. They are far less powerful than the Archons, but they
  interact with living beings to some extent. A good rule-of-thumb is at most
  one per celestial body.
- Morphic resonances do not attach themselves to stars because the nuclear
  furnaces are too unstable to resonate meaningfully. However, it is possible
  for a morphic resonance to attach itself to the rhythmic movements of
  celestial bodies within a star system, but such an entity will be very passive.
- A core technology pre-Rot is silicon-based mind amplification arrays. Post-Rot,
  one civilization creates organic, microtubule-based mind amplification
  symbiotes, while others create graphene-based mind amplifiers. The idea is to
  construct something like a horcrux that is capable of resonating with
  conformal psychic activity, requiring both customization to fit the wielder
  and intense concentration by the wielder. Efficacy varies with design and
  conditions, but they can amplify the abilities of a talented warlock by
  anywhere from 1.5x to 10x.
- The easiest psychic effects to manifest interact directly with other minds;
  i.e. telepathic abilities and illusions. However, a sufficiently powerful mind
  can hijack reality in miraculous ways, and each such manipulation of reality
  causes an equal and opposite manipulation somewhere else nearby. E.g. when an
  Archon coagulates a giant mechanical body from space dust, entropy and energy
  are conserved, causing an increase in entropy and decrease in energy
  elsewhere.

