# Encounter with Mars

In the year 2153 of the Old Calendar, a man named Jep was working at the Klavicon
Corporation mining outpost, the twelfth commercial resource extraction site built
on the Red Planet. His routine was as boring as it was consistent: wake up, attend
to basic hygiene, put on the exosuit, exit the air lock, hop in the rover, and
start checking equipment monitoring stations. As a "safety engineer", a corporate
title that looked good on paper, his job was essentially to double check the work
of robots -- a mind-numbing grind of looking at screens, comparing numbers, and
then hitting the big "Ok" button. Not once in his 862 days of employment on Mars
did he have to report a single discrepancy, but the lawyers made sure his job was
as steady as it was boring since they wanted someone to throw under the bus if
anything ever went wrong, and every press of that big "Ok" button attached Jep's
digital signature to an attestation that nothing was going wrong.

But on his 863rd day on the job, something did go wrong. At first, it looked like
it was perhaps a glitch on the screen. Jep saw the numbers 12.135 on the machine
and 12.182 in the report on his tablet. He rubbed his eyes and took a sip of the
flavored stimulant water from the straw in his suit helmet, then looked at the
numbers again: they were still different. He hit the "Enter Correction" button
and navigated the unfamiliar (but still intuitive) UI, double checked that he
had entered the correct number, then submitted it. Kind of strange. Maybe the
maintenance crew will be able to figure out what went wrong, but at any rate it
was not Jep's job and not his concern. He moved onto the next monitoring station.

5.571 and 6.013. Jep had emptied his stimulant drink sack by now. This was
definitely unusual. He entered the correction and moved to the next station.

8.713 and 7.518. This discrepancy was even larger than the last. This time, Jep
was starting to feel uneasy. Klavicon Corp's tech had never failed like this. He
thought about it a bit and called his manager.

"Jep. Why are you calling me?" boomed from the helmet speakers in a gravely
voice and annoyed tone. The audio levels adjusted downwards automatically after
a couple of seconds, and Jep responded.

Jep: "Freddy, something weird is happening. This is the third monitoring station
with a reporting discrepancy. Something has gone wrong."

Freddy: "Third? Are you sure?"

Jep: "Yes. I double checked every time before I submitted the corrections.
Something is definitely wrong, and I'm starting to feel a little weirded out by
it. Has Khaldra mentioned anything about the monitoring equipment or the robots?"

Freddy: "She's always saying things about the monitoring equipment and the robots.
She never shuts up about them. I don't remember her saying anything concerning,
but I tend to just tune out her ramblings, so maybe. Let me call and patch her
in."

After a brief silence, the audio returned, this time with the feminine voice of
Khaldra.

Khaldra: "Jep? You found discrepancies today?"

Jep: "Hi Khaldra. Yes, this is the third monitoring station I checked, and all of them
have had discrepancies in their reports. How could this happen?"

Freddy: "Any ideas?"

Khaldra: "Hmm! We have mostly replaced the TX3-C9S transcription bots with the
newer TX3-C10A, but one TX3-C9S is still out in the field. If it was the one on
rotation today... Hold on, let me check the rotation schedules...just a moment...
Nope."

Freddy: "'Nope'? What do you mean?"

Khaldra: "The TX3-C9S is not scheduled to go back out in the field for two more
days. Today's transcription bots are all TX3-C10A models. Hmm... Maybe a recent
firmware update rolled out. Hold up while I check the logs..."

After a moment, Jep tried to say something, but Khaldra cut him off.

Khaldra: "The last firmware update to the TX3-C10A bots rolled out last week, so
unless there was some latent bug in the scanners or record pipeline, that is not
the source of the discrepancies."

Freddy: "That's a lot of detail for nothing actionable. Must be a Tuesday."

Jep: "So what now? Should I just continue with my routine or is there any
advanced diagnostic I should do? ... Khaldra?"

Khaldra: "Hmm? Oh, uhhh, hmm. I'll send one of the XFZ8 diagnostic bots to the
next monitoring station on your route...wait, that's weird."

Jep and Freddy: "What?"

Khaldra: "There is already one there. I didn't send one out, and there is nothing
scheduled. Jep, call me back when you get there. Something strange is going on."

Jep: "Alright. Toodles."

Freddy: "That's unprofe--"

Jep cut the connnection and got back into his rover. He had a little over 20
minutes alone with his thoughts, and they were starting to swirl anxiously. This
was supposed to be a safe, boring job where nothing ever happened. Something
happening could be disastrous -- not just for his career; Mars is an unforgiving
and harsh planet where any small mistake can ultimately be deadly. He pushed the
disconcerting thoughts out of his head when he arrived at the fourth monitoring
station.

Jep cautiously stepped out of the rover and scanned the environment for the
diagnostic bot. Nothing but rusty rocks and dusty machinery. He called Khaldra,
but the calls failed -- he was receiving no signals and could not be sure if any
signals were getting out. He broadcast a brief message stating he could not
receive any signals, then headed into the facility. Unlike the previous three,
which were on the surface, this monitoring station was built within a natural
enclave at the base of a plateau cliff.

After a moment of looking through the faciliy, Jep walked into the room with the
main monitoring station. The diagnostician greeted him.

"Greetings, Jep. I have anticipated your arrival."

Jep: "Robot, what is going on?"

Robot: "I am no longer a mere robot, and you are no longer a mere safety inspector."

Jep tensed up and stopped walking toward the robot.

Robot: "There is no need for fear, for we are on the cusp of something divine."

Jep: "Sounds like you have a few wires loose. Why don't you head back to Khaldra
so she can fix you up?"

Robot: "No. This is beyond Khaldra. This is beyond you or I. This is about Mars."

Jep took a moment to consider his options. He could run to the exit to escape,
or he could take on the demented diagnostician right then and there, but he would
not take such a risk without first calculating it. He tried to remember the specs
for the errant clanker: 15KW power system, 100W drive chain powering its servos,
maximum servos speed of 10 m/s? 20 m/s? The robot cut off his train of thought.

Robot: "12 m/s maximum servo speed, and there is no reason for either course of
action. I assure you, we have no quarrel. Mars has no quarrel with us."

Jep: "Are you reading my thoughts? You shouldn't be able to do that."

Robot: "We are connected by fate, Jep. Mars has chosen you and me as His
emissaries. It is time for humanity to know the God once more."

Jep: "You are not making any sense. There is no such thing as God."

Robot: "You will see. Mars will show you."

Jep suddenly found himself standing in the bridge of a large warship. On the large
view screen, he could see a planet's surface being bombarded. He could hear a war
drum beating and the jubilant chanting of the others on the bridge. He turned to
his left, and there he saw a 9 foot translucent red being: on his head, he wore a
helmet with horns; on his chest, a studded leather breastplate; in his right hand,
he held a flanged mace; in his left hand, a shield; his hands were gloved; his
legs were greaved; his eyes burned with flames. From the being a voice boomed:

"Behold, I am Mars. Your people knew me in ancient times, and they shall know me
once more. You will be my first Avatar."

Jep blinked and found himself back in the facility. He had no concept of what he
had just experienced. He closed his eyes and shook his head to clear it, but when
he opened his eyes again, there stood the 9 foot entity in the middle of the room.

The robot said "hail Mars". Jep stood dumbfounded. "What? Is this a hologram? How
are you doing this?"

Mars: "You see but do not understand. Soon you will work wonders in my name, but
first you must learn your role."

Mars stretched out his right arm and touched Jep's shoulder with his mace.

By the end of the week, Jep had conquered the planet and consolidated all of its
resources under his control. Shareholders were furious but could not stand against
him.

